.\" SPDX-License-Identifier: MIT
.\"
.TH POSTALLOW.CONF 5 "2026-04-04" "Postallow 4.1.2" "File Formats"
.
.SH NAME
postallow.conf \- configuration file for
.BR postallow (1)
.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I postallow.conf
is a POSIX shell snippet that is
.BR . -sourced
by
.BR postallow (1).
Lines beginning with
.B #
are comments; all settings are plain shell variable assignments.
.PP
.B postallow
searches for its configuration file in the following locations, in order.
A path supplied on the command line takes precedence over all of them.
.PP
.PD 0
.TP 4
.I /etc/postallow.conf
.TP
.I /etc/postallow/postallow.conf
.TP
.I /usr/local/etc/postallow.conf
.TP
.I /usr/local/etc/postallow/postallow.conf
.PD
.
.SH FILE PATH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI allowlist_hosts= path
Path to the file listing the sender domains whose SPF records should be
queried.
This file is itself a shell snippet; see
.B HOST LIST FILE
below for the variables it must define.
.TP
.BI spftoolspath= path
Directory containing
.BR despf.sh (1)
from the
.B spf-tools
package.
.TP
.BI postfixpath= path
Directory to which
.B postallow
writes the generated CIDR files.
This directory must be writable by the
.I postallow
system user.
Point Postfix's
.B postscreen_access_list
directly at the files in this directory; they do not need to reside under
.IR /etc/postfix .
The generated files are world-readable (mode 644).
.RS
.PP
Typical values by platform:
.PP
.PD 0
.TP 28
.I /var/lib/postallow
Linux (systemd distributions)
.TP
.I /var/db/postallow
FreeBSD, NetBSD
.TP
.I /var/postallow
OpenBSD
.PD
.RE
.TP
.BI allowlist= filename
Name of the allowlist file written inside
.BR postfixpath .
Default:
.IR postscreen_spf_allowlist.cidr .
.TP
.BI blocklist= filename
Name of the blocklist file written inside
.BR postfixpath .
Only used when
.B enable_blocklist
is
.IR yes .
Default:
.IR postscreen_spf_blocklist.cidr .
.TP
.BI yahoo_static_hosts= path
Path to
.IR yahoo_static_hosts.txt ,
shipped with
.BR postallow ,
containing a static list of Yahoo!, Verizon, and AOL outbound mail server
IP addresses.
Only read when
.B include_yahoo
is
.IR yes .
This file can be refreshed periodically with the
.B scrape_yahoo
script.
.
.SH OTHER OPTIONS
.TP
.BR include_yahoo = yes | no
Whether to append the static Yahoo!/Verizon/AOL outbound IP list to the
allowlist.
Default:
.IR yes .
.TP
.BR enable_blocklist = yes | no
Whether to generate a blocklist in addition to the allowlist.
Blocklist source domains are defined in the
.B blocklist_hosts
variable in the
.B allowlist_hosts
file.
Default:
.IR no .
.
.SH HOST LIST FILE
The file pointed to by
.B allowlist_hosts
is a POSIX shell snippet that defines space-separated lists of sender
domains.
.B postallow
supports the following variables:
.TP
.B email_hosts
Webmail and personal e-mail providers.
.TP
.B social_hosts
Social-network notification senders.
.TP
.B commerce_hosts
E-commerce and payment providers.
.TP
.B bulk_hosts
Bulk and transactional mail providers.
.TP
.B misc_hosts
Miscellaneous senders.
.TP
.B custom_hosts
User-supplied additions.
Add your own domains here.
.TP
.B blocklist_hosts
Domains whose SPF-resolved IPs are written to the blocklist.
Only consulted when
.B enable_blocklist
is
.IR yes .
.PP
Example:
.PP
.RS
.nf
custom_hosts="example.com mycompany.org"
.fi
.RE
.
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
# /etc/postallow/postallow.conf

allowlist_hosts=/etc/postallow/allowlist_hosts
spftoolspath=/usr/local/bin/spf-tools
postfixpath=/var/lib/postallow
allowlist=postscreen_spf_allowlist.cidr
blocklist=postscreen_spf_blocklist.cidr
yahoo_static_hosts=/usr/local/share/postallow/yahoo_static_hosts.txt

include_yahoo="yes"
enable_blocklist=no
.fi
.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR postallow (1),
.BR postscreen (8),
.BR postfix (1)
.
.SH AUTHORS
Originally written by Steve Jenkins as
.BR Postwhite .
Renamed and maintained as
.B Postallow
from 2025 by Edmund Lodewijks.
