.\" SPDX-License-Identifier: MIT
.\"
.TH POSTALLOW 1 "2026-04-01" "Postallow 4.1.0" "User Commands"
.
.SH NAME
postallow \- generate a Postscreen allowlist (and optionally blocklist) from SPF records
.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B postallow
.RI [ config-file ]
.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B postallow
is a POSIX shell script that generates an allowlist (and optionally a blocklist)
for Postfix's
.BR postscreen (8),
based on large senders' published SPF records.
.PP
It recursively queries the SPF records of the domains listed in the
.I allowlist_hosts
file, collects the resulting IP addresses and CIDR ranges, summarises them with
.BR aggregateCIDR.pl (1)
from the
.B route-summarization
package, and writes a flat CIDR file that Postfix reads directly via
.BR postscreen_access_list .
.PP
.B postallow
is designed to run as a dedicated unprivileged system user
.RI ( postallow ).
It writes its output to a directory owned by that user; Postfix reads the
files from there directly.
Reloading Postfix after a run is left to the init system \(em
see the service units in
.I contrib/systemd/
(Linux/systemd) or
.I contrib/freebsd/
(FreeBSD rc.d).
.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.I config-file
Path to an alternative configuration file.
Overrides the default search path (see
.B FILES
below).
.
.SH FILES
.B postallow
searches for its configuration file in the following locations, in order.
A path supplied on the command line takes precedence over all of them.
.PP
.PD 0
.TP 4
.I /etc/postallow.conf
.TP
.I /etc/postallow/postallow.conf
.TP
.I /usr/local/etc/postallow.conf
.TP
.I /usr/local/etc/postallow/postallow.conf
.PD
.PP
See
.BR postallow.conf (5)
for a description of all configuration options.
.
.SH DEPENDENCIES
.TP
.B spf-tools
Provides
.BR despf.sh (1),
used to recursively expand SPF \(lqinclude:\(rq chains.
Available at
.IR https://github.com/spf-tools/spf-tools .
.TP
.B route-summarization
Provides
.BR aggregateCIDR.pl (1),
used to aggregate and summarise the resulting CIDR ranges.
Available at
.IR https://github.com/edmundlod/route-summarization .
.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Success.
.TP
.B 1
The configuration file or the
.I allowlist_hosts
file could not be found, or temporary files could not be created.
.
.SH EXAMPLES
Run with the default configuration file search path:
.PP
.RS
.B postallow
.RE
.PP
Run with an explicit configuration file:
.PP
.RS
.B postallow /etc/postallow/postallow.conf
.RE
.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR postallow.conf (5),
.BR postscreen (8),
.BR postfix (1)
.
.SH BUGS
Please report bugs at
.IR https://github.com/edmundlod/postallow/issues .
.
.SH AUTHORS
Originally written by Steve Jenkins as
.BR Postwhite .
Renamed and maintained as
.B Postallow
from 2025 by Edmund Lodewijks.
